# CNN-for-Lung-Cancer
Within the medical field, there are vast uses of AI and Machine Learning. One form is CAD, Computer Aided Diagnosis, this is a technique that uses Machine Learning Algorithms such as SVMs, neural networks, and even CNNs to diagnose patients using CT-Scans. Among these techniques, I wanted to hone in on using a Convolutional Neural Network to detect different stages of cancer from a CT-Scan as CNNs can be extremely useful when it comes to image processing and classification. My plan of action for the CNN was to take in an input of CT Scans in the form of JPG and output the identification of the category of cancer that the CT Scan displays. In the end, I wanted to find the accuracy of running different epochs and learning rates to see how this affects the model accuracy.

The objective consisted of accurately and precisely classifying CT-Scans into different stages of cancer. I found my experiment/model a semi-success as it was able to predict malignant and normal cases with adequate accuracy. However, one constraint that I discovered throughout this experiment was that the dataset was not quite balanced since the amount of data for the Benign Cases is significantly less than the amount of data for both Malignant and Normal Cases. This constraint led to the accuracy for Benign cases being extremely less precise, sometimes at 0% even. Apart from the limitations that we discovered, we found our model architecture to be efficient as any other changes, such as adding or removing any layers, would prove either detrimental or ineffective to the CNN. As far as our hyperparameters are concerned, the number of epochs has a heavy impact on the accuracy (as does the learning rate, but 0.01 is the learning rate that consistently worked for me). Our epochs would display problems as if they varied too much, the results would be greatly affected. For example, if the epoch would be set to a certain number, they would only classify the CT-Scans as one category. This, amongst other problems, would cause me a great deal of trial and error until finally reached a set number of epochs that returned 70% total accuracy. In conclusion, we can, in the future, use CAD such as my model to help patients get better diagnostics by evaluating the smaller details of the CT scan therefore improving the patient’s treatment as well as less manual work by the doctor.
